[Term Entry] JavaScript Strings .substr() #4726 (#4737)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/strings/terms/substr/substr.md

---
Title: '.substr()'
Description: 'Extracts a portion of a string, starting from a specified position up to a given number of characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> The `.substr()` method in JavaScript extracts a portion of a string, starting from a specified index position up to a given number of characters. The index count begins with zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.substr()`** method in JavaScript extracts a portion of a string, starting from a specified index position up to a given number of characters. The index count begins with zero.
```

## Syntax

```js
string.substr(startingIndex, length);
```

- `startingIndex`: determines the index from which the substring will begin.
- `length`: (optional) is the number of characters to extract.

If `length` is not provided, `.substr()` will extract the rest of the characters until the end of the string.

## Example 1

Extracting a portion of a string with a specified `length`.

```js
console.log('The Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn.'.substr(4, 19));
// Output: Intro to JavaScript
```

## Example 2

Extracting a portion of a string _without_ a specified `length`.

```js
console.log('The Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn.'.substr(4));
// Output: Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn.
```

## Codebyte Example

> The `.substr()` method does not change the original string. Also, it can extract from the end of the string when provided with a negative starting index position.

Reviewer: First, mention that it can extract from the end of the string then mention that it does not change the original string

> 

Reviewer: For this case where starting index is negative show a similar example like Example 1 and Example 2 and then combine all of them in the codebyte example

> ---
> Title: '.substr()'
> Description: 'Extracts a portion of a string, starting from a specified position up to a given number of characters.'
> Subjects:
>   - 'Web Development'
>   - 'Computer Science'
> Tags:
>   - 'Strings'
>   - 'Methods'
> CatalogContent:
>   - 'introduction-to-javascript'
>   - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
Title: '.substr()'
Description: 'Extracts a portion of a string starting from a specified position extending up to a specified number of characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---
```

Reviewer 2: the subjects and tags have to be in alphabetical order.

> The **`.substr()`** method in JavaScript extracts a portion of a string, starting from a specified index position up to a given number of characters. The index count begins with zero.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.substr()`** method in JavaScript extracts a portion of a string, starting from a specified index position and extending for a specified number of characters. Indexing begins at zero.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> string.substr(startingIndex, length);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
string.substr(start, length);
```

```

> - `startingIndex`: determines the index from which the substring will begin.
> - `length`: (optional) is the number of characters to extract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `start`: The index position in the string where extraction begins. If negative, it counts from the end of the string 
- `length`: The number of characters to extract. It is an optional parameter. If omitted, the extraction continues to the end of the string.
```

> If `length` is not provided, `.substr()` will extract the rest of the characters until the end of the string.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Added this in the description of the parameter itself

## Example 1

Extracting a portion of a string with a specified `length`.

```js
console.log('The Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn.'.substr(4, 19));
// Output: Intro to JavaScript
```

## Example 2

Extracting a portion of a string _without_ a specified `length`.

```js
console.log('The Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn.'.substr(4));
// Output: Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn.
```

The `.substr()` can also extract from the end of the string when provided with a negative starting index position.

## Example 3

Extracting from the end of a string.

```js
console.log('The Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn.'.substr(-27, 10));
// Output: JavaScript

> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's have all the 3 examples with different test cases in one, as follows:

## Example
```js
// Extracting a portion of a string with a specified length

var sentence1 = "The Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn."
console.log(sentence1.substr(4, 19));

// Extracting a portion of a string without a specified length
var sentence2 = "The Intro to JavaScript is fun to learn"
console.log(sentence2.substr(4));
```

Add all the 3 use cases (examples) in one block, you can use comments `//` to explain the use case in the code. 
For displaying the output, use the ```shell``` block after the ##Example block.

## Codebyte Example

> Important Note: The `.substr()` method does not change the original string.

Reviewer 2: This line can be added at the end, after the code byte example in the format:

> Note: The `.substr()` method does not change the original string.
